Add a short introduction to ZHA (#24494)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/zha.markdown

There is also support for grouping of lights, switches, and fans (i.e. support for commanding device groups as entities). At least two entities must be added to a group before the group entity is created. As well as support for binding/unbinding (i.e. bind a remote to a lightbulb or group).

## Introduction

> ZHA integration is a Zigbee gateway implementation that follows the standard Zigbee 3.0 specification as well as earlier revisions of the Zigbee Pro specification. In Zigbee, there are three different device types: Zigbee Coordinator (ZC), Zigbee Router (ZR), and Zigbee End Device (ZED). A Zigbee network always has one (and no more) Zigbee Coordinator, however, a Zigbee network can have multiple Zigbee Routers and multiple Zigbee End Devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZHA integration is a Zigbee gateway implementation that follows the standard Zigbee 3.0 specification (and earlier revisions). In Zigbee, there are three different device types: Zigbee Coordinator (ZC), Zigbee Router (ZR), and Zigbee End Device (ZED). A Zigbee network always has one (and no more) Zigbee Coordinator, however, a Zigbee network can have multiple Zigbee Routers and multiple Zigbee End Devices.
```

> A Zigbee Coordinator is the central device in a Zigbee network that manages and controls the network, and assigns addresses to other devices. It acts as a physical interface for the Zigbee wireless protocol, as well as being responsible for maintaining the Zigbee network topology and ensuring secure and efficient communication between Zigbee devices. Zigbee Router devices are mains-powered and will act as Zigbee signal repeaters within the Zigbee network mesh to extend its range and improve coverage, while Zigbee End Device devices are usually battery-operated sensors which will not act as Zigbee signal repeaters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Zigbee Coordinator is the central device in a Zigbee network that manages and controls the network. It acts as a physical interface for the Zigbee wireless protocol, as well as being responsible for maintaining the Zigbee network topology and ensuring secure and efficient communication between Zigbee devices. Zigbee Router devices are mains-powered and will act as Zigbee signal repeaters within the Zigbee network mesh to extend its range and improve coverage, while Zigbee End Device devices are usually battery-operated sensors that will not act as Zigbee signal repeaters.
```

> In the case of ZHA, the Zigbee Coordinator is a radio adapter or module hardware, that hardware contains a microcontroller which comes with firmware that runs the Zigbee protocol stack that the ZHA integration uses to manage a Zigbee network and communicate wirelessly with Zigbee devices via an integrated low-power digital radio and antenna.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of ZHA, the Zigbee Coordinator is a radio adapter or hardware module, that contains a microcontroller that runs the Zigbee protocol stack which the ZHA integration uses to manage and communicate with a Zigbee network and its devices.
```

> Therefore before installing the ZHA integration, you will need to buy and connect a Zigbee Coordinator radio adapter or module hardware, those usually come in the form of a USB dongle that plugs directly into the computer that is running the Home Assistant installation. The ZHA integration can work with many different "Zigbee Coordinator" adapters, however, be sure to read the respective sections below about compatible Zigbee radio adapters and modules hardware (e.i. the physical radio adapter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before installing the ZHA integration, you will need to buy and connect a Zigbee Coordinator radio adapter or hardware module, those usually come in the form of a USB dongle that plugs directly into the computer that is running the Home Assistant installation. The ZHA integration can work with many different "Zigbee Coordinator" adapters, however, be sure to read the respective sections below about compatible Zigbee radio adapters and hardware modules.
```

> Once ZHA has been installed and the Zigbee Coordinator radio adapter or module is configured you will be able to directly join/pair Zigbee Router Device and Zigbee End Device products to that Zigbee network, regardless of the manufacturer and brand of that Zigbee-based product. Note that while it is generally recommended to buy Zigbee 3.0 compliant devices as those should, in theory, offer greater interoperability, be sure of the sections about which devices are supported and exception handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once ZHA has been set up and the Zigbee Coordinator radio adapter or module is configured, you will be able to directly join/pair any Zigbee device to the Zigbee network; regardless of the manufacturer and brand of that Zigbee-based product. Note, that while it is generally recommended to buy Zigbee 3.0 compliant devices as those should, in theory, offer greater interoperability, be sure of the sections about which devices are supported and exception handling.
```

There is also support for grouping of lights, switches, and fans (i.e. support for commanding device groups as entities). At least two entities must be added to a group before the group entity is created. As well as support for binding/unbinding (i.e. bind a remote to a lightbulb or group).

## Introduction

> ZHA integration follows the official Zigbee specification standards and uses one Zigbee Coordinator to set up and control a Zigbee network. Once ZHA has been installed and the Zigbee Coordinator is configured you will be able to directly join/pair Zigbee Router Device and Zigbee End Device products to that Zigbee network, regardless of the manufacturer and brand of that Zigbee-based product. Please see the respective sections below for compatible Zigbee radio modules hardware (physical radio adapter) and information on supported Zigbee devices.

Reviewer: The first response to the first sentence: What is a coordinator? (Also, why is it capitalized?)

Author: OK, I have rewritten much of the Introduction section for ZHA based on feedback.

> Before installing the integration you will need to buy and connect a Zigbee Coordinator adapter to the computer running the Home Assistant installation. The general recommendation is to buy a newer model of Zigbee Coordinator adapter hardware and to flash the latest firmware to it, the reason that is it will usually offer better interoperability with all functions of most Zigbee 3.0 compliant devices on the market.

Reviewer: I think the new user will absolutely get lost in this paragraph. While still not clean what a coordinator is, it now becomes an adapter too? And what is firmware? And how do I flash it onto my unknown coordinator?

In the last line, is now talks about Zigbee 3.0?

Author: OK, I have rewritten much of the Introduction section for ZHA based on feedback.

Supported devices are Zigbee Router Devices, which are normally mains-powered that act as Zigbee signal repeaters within the Zigbee network mesh to extend its range and improve coverage, and Zigbee End Devices, which will not act as Zigbee signal repeaters and are usually but not always battery-operated sensors.

> ### Limitations

Reviewer: I don't think limitation belong at the start of documentation. Know limitations are usually listed in their own chapter somewhere at the end.

For example, the fact you can only use a single coordinator, isn't relevant at this point of the documentation at all. Nor does it matter if your devices are already paired or not at this point (that part would better fit in a pairing paragraph).

Author: OK, I moved the Limitation into its own section as suggested, so it is now under Troubleshooting as I think the users should be aware of the limitations before they start troubleshooting.

## Troubleshooting

To help resolve any kinks or compatibility problems, report bugs as issues with debug logs. Please note the current limitations and follow the instructions in this troubleshooting section.

### Limitations 

Note that ZHA only supports connecting a single dedicated Zigbee Coordinator radio adapter or module with a single Zigbee network and that the Zigbee Coordinator cannot already be connected or used by any other application. Any devices that are or have previously been connected to another Zigbee implementation will also need to first be reset to their factory default settings before they can be paired/joined to ZHA, please see each device manufacturer's documentation.

> ZHA does currently not support devices that can only use the ZGP ("Zigbee Green Power") profile which is used in a few batteryless self-powered or energy harvesting devices, (such as for example; Philips Hue Click, Philips Hue Tap, and some "Friends of Hue" partnership switches). The reason for this is that ZGP profile support has not yet been implemented in the [zigpy](https://github.com/zigpy/zigpy) library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZHA does currently not support devices that can only use the ZGP ("Zigbee Green Power") profile which is used in a few batteryless self-powered or energy harvesting devices, (such as for example; Philips Hue Click, Philips Hue Tap, and some "Friends of Hue" partnership switches).
```

> ZHA does not currently support devices that can only use the ZSE ("Zigbee Smart Energy") profile, that is however due to the "Zigbee SE" specification not being part of the standard Zigbee 3.0 specification and thus not implemented in most of the Zigbee protocol stacks that are commonly available Zigbee Coordinator radio adapters and modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZHA does not currently support devices that can only use the ZSE ("Zigbee Smart Energy") profile, that is however due to the "Zigbee SE" specification not being part of the standard Zigbee 3.0 specification and thus not implemented in most of the Zigbee protocol stacks that are commonly available Zigbee Coordinator radio adapters and modules.
```

Author: Was there a suggested change there? I am not ignoring but must be an error as do not see a commit suggestion. Please re-review and resubmit the suggested change there. Resolving this as can not see the requested change.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6320001/218690708-e7fb7e45-1158-4d63-a049-4a3d1a6e327a.png)

Reviewer: I have no idea what happened or why I did that. Resolving it for that reason.
